The 2013 change to the order of succession was part of a modernisation of the British monarchy that began in earnest after the death of Princess Diana in a road accident in Paris. Back in the 1980s, while Diana was becoming a worldwide celebrity, the rest of the the British monarchy seemed stuck in the past, attached to old formalities and increasingly detached from the "new" more informal Britain that had emerged. Following Diana's death, it was clear that people in Britain wanted a monarchy that was much more in touch with the mood of nation. Diana had that quality, and Prime Minister Tony Blair is remembered for the name he coined after her death, "the People's Princess."
The Queen's slow and formal reaction to Diana's death contrasted sharply with the outpouring of popular emotion that engulfed Britain in the days after the tragic accident. People no longer wanted a monarchy without emotion; the "stiff upper lip" was no longer seen as a virtue, but as a problem.
This came as wake-up call to the monarchy, and particularly to the Queen, and during the final decades of her life, Queen Elizabeth was at pains to create a new image for the monarchy and for herself. The image of an austere monarch, as created in the 19th century by Queen Victoria, had had its day, in its place came a new image of the monarchy, portraying the Queen as a national grandmother to replace the People's Princess. And the change of image was a success; by the time of the Queen's Golden Jubilee in 2002, the British monarchy was as popular as ever, with opinion polls showing two thirds of the British population were in favour of the monarchy, with less than a quarter wanting Britain to become a republic.
Overall, Elizabeth II was a very popular head of state, probably the most genuinely popular head of state of any country in the world during much of her 70 year reign; it is a legacy that Charles III will find hard to follow but a challenge for which he seems to be both ready and confident of success.
That success will depend to a large extent on continuing, and even accelerating, the process of modernisation. While very few people in Britain want the United Kingdom to become the United Republic, that could change if King Charles fails to keep the monarchy aligned with the expectations of the people…. and the media.
Issues that are regularly raised, and are a perennial problem for the monarchy, are the questions of cost and lifestyle. According to official figures produced for the government, the British monarchy cost the nation £102.4 million in the 2021-2022 financial year…. a lot of money at a time when a cost of living crisis was making life harder for most of the population. On the other hand, according to analysts at Bloomberg, the Monarchy actually benefits the British economy to the tune of a billion pounds a year… about ten times more than the cost.
In spite of what opponents claim, it is by no means sure that abolishing the monarchy would mean more money for other purposes. Back in 2016, a lot of people were claiming that Brexit would be a big boost to the UK economy; in the event it has proved to be the opposite, and in 2022 the UK economy was lagging behind all other G7 nations.
King Charles knows however that he needs to be seen to be reducing the wealth of the Royal Family and the number of people who benefit from it. Bloomberg estimated in 2022 that the British monarchy owned property worth about £19 billion, and while selling some of this would make little or no difference to royal lifestyles, it would be a symbolic gesture. We can therefore expect some sales of royal property in the coming years, along with other signs that the monarchy is in touch with twenty-first century expectations.
Before becoming king, Charles was known as an environmentalist, a keen supporter of organic agriculture, and someone who was acutely aware of the social problems of British cities. The "Prince's Trust", which he personally set up in 1976, is a major British charity that works with problems of homelessness and unemployment among young people who are struggling at school and at risk of exclusion, and Charles's social and environmental credentials are personal assets that will help him to take the monarchy forwards.
Finally, Charles will need to build on the monarchy's other great assets, its permanence and its position above politics. Ask people in Britain if they want to abolish the monarchy, and just over 20% may say "yes". Ask them who they would prefer to have as Britain's head of state, and there is no agreement.
As for the future of the monarchy, only one thing is sure, and that is that King Charles's reign will be shorter than that of his mother. Will the monarchy survive beyond him? Probably yes,  but nothing can be ruled out.
The big text or big letter generator is a very useful online tool for fun and creative purposes. You can include this huge text generator in your regular arsenal of font generators for daily chat messages. Want to send a big shout out to a friend on their birthday? Generate a big happy birthday greeting with the big text or giant text generator. Planning a big New Year’s Eve bash? Make your huge announcement with the huge text generator.
Outside your chat boxes, you will also enjoy using the big font generator on social media. Use the giant text generator to make a giant reveal on your captions, and grab the same giant font for your actual post. Carry over the excitement by getting the big text generator to generate giant comments and replies for your followers. You could even use the same large text generator to create huge headlines on your short-form videos on Reels or TikTok, or your longer videos on YouTube.
Aside from social media and daily chats, the large text generator can also be used to generate big text for professional presentations or designs for clients. If you’re presenting a proposal, convey your excitement with fonts generated with the big font or big letter generator. Sharing a major milestone in your company newsletter? Send a huge congratulatory message to the team with the huge text generator. Revitalizing your website? Experiment with the giant text generator for your call to action buttons.
The big text or big letter generator is a very useful online tool for fun and creative purposes. You can include this huge text generator in your regular arsenal of font generators for daily chat messages. Want to send a big shout out to a friend on their birthday? Generate a big happy birthday greeting with the big text or giant text generator. Planning a big New Year’s Eve bash? Make your huge announcement with the huge text generator.
Outside your chat boxes, you will also enjoy using the big font generator on social media. Use the giant text generator to make a giant reveal on your captions, and grab the same giant font for your actual post. Carry over the excitement by getting the big text generator to generate giant comments and replies for your followers. You could even use the same large text generator to create huge headlines on your short-form videos on Reels or TikTok, or your longer videos on YouTube.
Aside from social media and daily chats, the large text generator can also be used to generate big text for professional presentations or designs for clients. If you’re presenting a proposal, convey your excitement with fonts generated with the big font or big letter generator. Sharing a major milestone in your company newsletter? Send a huge congratulatory message to the team with the huge text generator. Revitalizing your website? Experiment with the giant text generator for your call to action buttons.
When using big text generated by the large text or big letter generator, you’ll want to maximize its effect. To do so, use your huge text generator for headlines and parts of the layout that are meant to catch people’s eyes. The big text generator is a handy tool for establishing visual hierarchy in a layout.
To achieve a visually interesting layout, pair your big text generator with other text generators like cursive, bold, and aesthetic font generators. You can use all these generators for creative purposes, as well as for professional ones. To keep your designs appropriate for their settings, match the tone of your setting to your font choice so you’ll stand out for all the right reasons. You can also explore more fonts.
An American or British person might be looking their client in the eye to show that they are paying full attention to what is being said, but if that client is from Japan or Korea, they might find the direct eye contact awkward or even disrespectful. In parts of South America and Africa, prolonged eye contact could also be seen as challenging authority. In the Middle East, eye contact across genders is considered inappropriate, although eye contact within a gender could signify honesty and truthfulness.
Having an increased awareness of the possible differences in expectations and behaviour can help us avoid cases of miscommunication, but it is vital that we also remember that cultural stereotypes can be detrimental to building good business relationships. Although national cultures could play a part in shaping the way we behave and think, we are also largely influenced by the region we come from, the communities we associate with, our age and gender, our corporate culture and our individual experiences of the world. The knowledge of the potential differences should therefore be something we keep at the back of our minds, rather than something that we use to pigeonhole the individuals of an entire nation.